doc: Add offline signing tutorial (#28363)
bitcoin/bitcoin: doc/offline-signing-tutorial.md

```sh
[online]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -rpcwallet="watch_only_wallet" getnewaddress
tb1qtu5qgc6ddhmqm5yqjvhg83qgk2t4ewajg0h6yh
```

2. Visit a faucet like https://signet.bc-2.jp to load funds into the generated address.

3. Confirm the received funds (to the offline_wallet) using the online watch_only_wallet.
```sh
[online]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -rpcwallet="watch_only_wallet" listunspent
[
  {
    "txid": "0f3953dfc3eb8e753cd1633151837c5b9953992914ff32b7de08c47f1f29c762",
    "vout": 1,
    "address": "tb1qtu5qgc6ddhmqm5yqjvhg83qgk2t4ewajg0h6yh",
    "label": "",
    "scriptPubKey": "00145f2804634d6df60dd080932e83c408b2975cbbb2",
    "amount": 0.01000000,
    "confirmations": 4,
    "spendable": true,
    "solvable": true,
    "desc": "wpkh([306c734f/84h/1h/0h/0/0]025932ccee7590158f7e08bb36290d135d30a0b045163da896e1cd7645ec4223a9)#xytvyr4a",
    "parent_descs": [
      "wpkh([306c734f/84h/1h/0h]tpubDCJnY92ib4Zu3qd6wrBXEjG436tQdA2tDiJU2iSJYjkNS1darssPWKaBfojhjUF5vMLBcxbN2r93pmFMz2zyTEZuNx9JDo9rWqoHhATW3Uz/0/*)#7mh08dkg"
    ],
    "safe": true
  }
]
```

### Create and Export a PSBT Transaction

> 1. Create a PSBT transaction using the online `watch_only_wallet`, sending funds to the `online_receiving_wallet` address. (`walletcreatefundedpsbt inputs[], outputs[address: amount]`)

Reviewer: I'd maybe add a step 0 just getting another receive address from the online wallet and do a self-send.

## Overview
In this tutorial, we have two hosts: [offline] which is totally offline and without a copy of the blockchain and [online] which is a regular online node, both running Bitcoin 25.0

In this example, we are going to create an `offline_wallet` on the [offline] host. We will then create a `watch_only_wallet` on the [online] host using descriptors imported from the `offline_wallet` and load funds to the wallet. we'll create a PSBT transaction using the  `watch_only_wallet`, sign it with the `offline_wallet` then broadcast the transaction using the [online] host

### Requirements
- [jq](https://jqlang.github.io/jq/) installation - This tutorial uses jq to process JSON.

> [!NOTE]
> Tested using Signet with a connected host machine and an offline docker container (representing the offline wallet) both running Signet, should also work with Regtest and Mainnet

### Create and Prepare the `offline_wallet`

1. On the offline machine, create an offline wallet named `offline_wallet`.

```sh
[offline]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -named createwallet wallet_name="offline_wallet"
{
  "name": "offline_wallet"
}
```

> 2. Export the offline wallet descriptors to a JSON file named `descriptors.json`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Export public key-only descriptors from [offline] to a JSON file named `descriptors.json`.
```

```sh
[offline]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -rpcwallet="offline_wallet" listdescriptors | jq -r '.descriptors' >> /path/to/descriptors.json
```

> [!NOTE]
> The `descriptors.json` file will be exported to the online machine (e.g. using a USB) to create a watch-only wallet. (This is an easier way to export the descriptors compared to manual export)

### Create the online `watch_only_wallet`

1. On the online machine, create an online watch-only wallet named `watch_only_wallet` without private keys (disable_private_keys=true) and should be blank with no keys or HD seed (blank=true).

> - The `watch_only_wallet` wallet will be used to track transactions received to the `offline_wallet` and for creating PSBT transactions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `watch_only_wallet` wallet will be used to track and validate incoming transactions, for creating unsigned PSBTs when spending coins, and for broadcasting signed and finalised PSBTs.
```

```sh
[online]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -named createwallet wallet_name="watch_only_wallet" disable_private_keys=true blank=true
{
  "name": "watch_only_wallet"
}
```

2. Import the `offline_wallet` descriptors to the online `watch_only_wallet` using the `descriptors.json` file created on the offline wallet

```sh
[online]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -rpcwallet="watch_only_wallet" importdescriptors "$(cat /path/to/descriptors.json)"
[
  {
    "success": true
  },
  {
    "success": true
  },
  {
    "success": true
  },
  {
    "success": true
  },
  {
    "success": true
  },
  {
    "success": true
  },
  {
    "success": true
  },
  {
    "success": true
  }
]
```
> [!NOTE]

> > Importing the multiple descriptors from the `offline_wallet` provides the ability to generate a variety of address types by the [online] `watch_only_wallets`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Importing the multiple descriptors from the `offline_wallet` provides the ability to generate a variety of address types from the [online] `watch_only_wallet`
```

      "is_final": false,
      "next": "signer",
      "missing": {
        "signatures": [
          "5f2804634d6df60dd080932e83c408b2975cbbb2"
        ]
      }
    }
  ],
  "estimated_vsize": 141,
  "estimated_feerate": 0.00100000,
  "fee": 0.00014100,
  "next": "signer"
}
```

### Process and Sign the PSBT Transaction

1. Process and sign the PSBT transaction on the `offline_wallet`.

```sh
[offline]$ processed_psbt=$(./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -rpcwallet="offline_wallet" walletprocesspsbt $(cat /path/to/funded_psbt.txt) | jq -r .psbt)
[offline]$ echo $processed_psbt
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
```

> ### Finalize the PSBT Transaction

Reviewer: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/28414 merged! This can be rebased ;-) calling `finalizepsbt` could be optional

# Offline Signing Tutorial

This tutorial will describe how to use two instances of Bitcoin Core, one online and one offline, to greatly increase security by not having private keys reside on a networked device.

Maintaining an air-gap between private keys and any network connections drastically reduces the opportunity for those keys to be exfiltrated from the user.

This workflow uses [Partially Signed Bitcoin Transactions](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/master/doc/psbt.md) (PSBTs) to transfer the transaction to and from the offline wallet for signing using the private keys.

## Overview
In this tutorial we have two hosts, both running Bitcoin v25.0

* [offline] which is disconnected from all networks (internet, Tor, wifi, bluetooth etc.) and does not have, or need, a copy of the blockchain.
* [online] which is a regular online node with a synced blockchain.

> We are going to first create an `offline_wallet` on the [offline] host. We will then create a `watch_only_wallet` on the [online] host using public key descriptors exported from the `offline_wallet`. Next we will receive some coins into the wallet. In order to spend these coins we'll create an unsigned PSBT using the `watch_only_wallet`, sign the PSBT using the private keys in the `offline_wallet`, and finally broadcast the signed PSBT using the [online] host.

Reviewer: nit, if you retouch: I'd say remove the brackets around online and offline - they are English words and don't really need to look like code

### Requirements
- [jq](https://jqlang.github.io/jq/) installation - This tutorial uses jq to process certain fields from JSON RPC responses, but this convenience is optional.

### Create and Prepare the `offline_wallet`

1. On the offline machine create a wallet named `offline_wallet`. This wallet will contain private keys and must remain unconnected to any networks at all times.

```sh

> [offline]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -named createwallet wallet_name="offline_wallet"

Reviewer: 1. First time signet is mentioned. I suggest either explaining it quickly at the top and inform users to leave it out for mainnet, or just leave it out for the guide
2. I think `-passphrase` should be set here too to encrypt the wallet. This is a security tutorial after all!

{
  "name": "offline_wallet"
}
```

2. Export the public key-only descriptors from [offline] to a JSON file named `descriptors.json`. We use `jq` here to extract the `.descriptors` field from the full RPC response.

```sh
[offline]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -rpcwallet="offline_wallet" listdescriptors \
             | jq -r '.descriptors' \
             >> /path/to/descriptors.json
```

> [!NOTE]
> The `descriptors.json` file will be transferred to the online machine (e.g. using a USB flash drive) where it can be imported to create a related watch-only wallet.

### Create the online `watch_only_wallet`

1. On the online machine create a blank watch-only wallet which has private keys disabled and is named `watch_only_wallet`. This is achieved by using the `createwallet` options: `disable_private_keys=true, blank=true`.

> The `watch_only_wallet` wallet will be used to track and validate incoming transactions, for creating unsigned PSBTs when spending coins, and for broadcasting signed and finalised PSBTs.

Reviewer 3: nit, if you retouch:
```suggestion
The `watch_only_wallet` wallet will be used to track and validate incoming transactions, for creating unsigned PSBTs when spending coins, and for broadcasting signed and finalized PSBTs.
```

> `blank` indicates that the wallet should not generate any new keys of its own. `disable_private_keys` indicates that the wallet should refuse to import private keys, i.e. will be a dedicated watch-only wallet.

```sh
[online]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -named createwallet \
              wallet_name="watch_only_wallet" \
              disable_private_keys=true \
              blank=true

{
  "name": "watch_only_wallet"
}
```

2. Import the `offline_wallet`s public key descriptors to the online `watch_only_wallet` using the `descriptors.json` file created on the offline wallet.

```sh
[online]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -rpcwallet="watch_only_wallet" importdescriptors "$(cat /path/to/descriptors.json)"

[
  {
    "success": true
  },
  {
    "success": true
  },
  {
    "success": true
  },
  {
    "success": true
  },
  {
    "success": true
  },
  {
    "success": true
  },
  {
    "success": true
  },
  {
    "success": true
  }
]
```
> [!NOTE]
> Multiple success values show indicates that multiple descriptors, for different address types, have been successfully imported. This allows generating different address types on the `watch_only_wallet`.

### Fund the `offline_wallet`

> At this point it's important to understand that both the `offline_wallet` and [online] `watch_only_wallet` share the same public keys. As a result they generate the same addresses. Transactions can be constructed using either wallet, but valid signatures can only be added by the `offline_wallet` as only it has the private keys.

Reviewer 3: nit: I'd use created like everywhere else
```suggestion
At this point it's important to understand that both the `offline_wallet` and [online] `watch_only_wallet` share the same public keys. As a result they generate the same addresses. Transactions can be created using either wallet, but valid signatures can only be added by the `offline_wallet` as only it has the private keys.
```

```
> [!NOTE]
> Leaving the `input` array empty in the above `walletcreatefundedpsbt` command is permitted and will cause the wallet to automatically select appropriate inputs for the transaction.

### Decode and Analyze the Unsigned PSBT

Decode and analyze the unsigned PSBT on the `offline_wallet` using the `funded_psbt.txt` file:

```sh
[offline]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet decodepsbt $(cat /path/to/funded_psbt.txt)

{
    ...
}

[offline]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet analyzepsbt $(cat /path/to/funded_psbt.txt)

{
  "inputs": [
    {
      "has_utxo": true,
      "is_final": false,
      "next": "signer",
      "missing": {
        "signatures": [
          "5f2804634d6df60dd080932e83c408b2975cbbb2"
        ]
      }
    }
  ],
  "estimated_vsize": 141,
  "estimated_feerate": 0.00100000,
  "fee": 0.00014100,
  "next": "signer"
}
```

Notice that the analysis of the PSBT shows that "signatures" are missing and should be provided by the private key corresponding to the public key hash (hash160) "5f2804634d6df60dd080932e83c408b2975cbbb2"

### Process and Sign the PSBT

> Process, Sign and Finalize the PSBT on the `offline_wallet` using the `walletprocesspsbt` command, saving the output to a file `final_psbt.txt`.

Reviewer: nit
```suggestion
Process, sign and finalize the PSBT on the `offline_wallet` using the `walletprocesspsbt` command, saving the output to a file `final_psbt.txt`.
```

```sh
[offline]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -rpcwallet="offline_wallet" walletprocesspsbt $(cat /path/to/funded_psbt.txt) \
               | jq -r .hex \
               >> /path/to/final_psbt.txt
```

### Broadcast the Signed and Finalized PSBT

> Broadcast the funded, signed and finalized PSBT `final_psbt.txt` using `sendrawtransaction` on the online wallet:

Reviewer: nit, could explain that the wallet's job is all done now and any bitcoin full node, light client, or even some block explorer APIs can be used just to broadcast.

```suggestion
Broadcast the funded, signed and finalized PSBT `final_psbt.txt` using `sendrawtransaction` with an online node:
```

```sh
[online]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -rpcwallet="watch_only_wallet" walletcreatefundedpsbt \
              '[]' '[{"tb1q9k5w0nhnhyeh78snpxh0t5t7c3lxdeg3erez32": 0.009}]' \
              | jq -r '.psbt' \
              >> /path/to/funded_psbt.txt

[online]$ cat /path/to/funded_psbt.txt

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
```
> [!NOTE]
> Leaving the `input` array empty in the above `walletcreatefundedpsbt` command is permitted and will cause the wallet to automatically select appropriate inputs for the transaction.

### Decode and Analyze the Unsigned PSBT

> Decode and analyze the unsigned PSBT on the `offline_wallet` using the `funded_psbt.txt` file:

Reviewer 2: nit: Could mention here that `decodepsbt` can be used with the offline host to check that the outputs are paying to the expected address(es), as `analyzepsbt` doesn't deal with outputs?

```sh
[offline]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet decodepsbt $(cat /path/to/funded_psbt.txt)

{
    ...
}

[offline]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet analyzepsbt $(cat /path/to/funded_psbt.txt)

{
  "inputs": [
    {
      "has_utxo": true,
      "is_final": false,
      "next": "signer",
      "missing": {
        "signatures": [
          "5f2804634d6df60dd080932e83c408b2975cbbb2"
        ]
      }
    }
  ],
  "estimated_vsize": 141,
  "estimated_feerate": 0.00100000,
  "fee": 0.00014100,
  "next": "signer"
}
```

Notice that the analysis of the PSBT shows that "signatures" are missing and should be provided by the private key corresponding to the public key hash (hash160) "5f2804634d6df60dd080932e83c408b2975cbbb2"

### Process and Sign the PSBT

> Process, Sign and Finalize the PSBT on the `offline_wallet` using the `walletprocesspsbt` command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Process, Sign and Finalize the PSBT on the `offline_wallet` using the `walletprocesspsbt` command, saving the output to a file `final_psbt.txt`.
```

```sh
[offline]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -rpcwallet="offline_wallet" walletprocesspsbt $(cat /path/to/funded_psbt.txt) \
               | jq -r .hex \
               >> /path/to/final_psbt.txt
```

> Next save the final PSBT hex to a file `final_psbt.txt` so that it can be transferred back to the online wallet for broadcasting.

Reviewer 2: We already saved this in the previous command.

Also not sure of the value of `cat`-ing the psbt file here? Just to check something saved correctly? Perhaps if there is little value we can remove L201-L207 altogether?

```sh
[offline]$ cat ~/final_psbt.txt

0200000000010162c7291f7fc408deb732ff14299953995b7c83513163d13c758eebc3df53390f0100000000fdffffff028c4f010000000000160014dda0f427f67bfeca9f0e7252e458ee39b82c7e06a0bb0d00000000001600142da8e7cef3b9337f1e1309aef5d17ec47e66e5110247304402200d245ee92df8be0183c98fb26bcbc474307ccdb764877273644b4c4eb359138202206c4cf787f120828a812b47043902683e24d50a60216e3b2fe0f104be2806e54f0121025932ccee7590158f7e08bb36290d135d30a0b045163da896e1cd7645ec4223a900000000
```

### Broadcast the Signed and Finalized PSBT

> Broadcast the funded, signed and finalized PSBT `final_psbt.txt` using the online wallet:

Reviewer 2: super-extra clarity nit:

```suggestion
Broadcast the funded, signed and finalized PSBT `final_psbt.txt` using `sendrawtransaction` on the online wallet:
```

# Offline Signing Tutorial

This tutorial will describe how to use two instances of Bitcoin Core, one online and one offline, to greatly increase security by not having private keys reside on a networked device.

> Maintaining an air-gap between private keys and any network connections drastically reduces the opportunity for those keys to be exfiltrated from the user.

Reviewer 4: Minor hyphenation nit.

```suggestion
Maintaining an air gap between private keys and any network connections drastically reduces the opportunity for those keys to be exfiltrated from the user.
```

This workflow uses [Partially Signed Bitcoin Transactions](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/master/doc/psbt.md) (PSBTs) to transfer the transaction to and from the offline wallet for signing using the private keys.

> [!NOTE]

> > While this tutorial demonstrates the process using `Signet` network, you should omit the `-signet` flag in the provided commands when working with the `Mainnet`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> While this tutorial demonstrates the process using `signet` network, you should omit the `-signet` flag in the provided commands when working with `mainnet`.
```

## Overview
In this tutorial we have two hosts, both running Bitcoin v25.0

* `offline` host which is disconnected from all networks (internet, Tor, wifi, bluetooth etc.) and does not have, or need, a copy of the blockchain.
* `online` host which is a regular online node with a synced blockchain.

> We are going to first create an `offline_wallet` on the offline host. We will then create a `watch_only_wallet` on the online host using public key descriptors exported from the `offline_wallet`. N`ext we will receive some coins into the wallet. In order to spend these coins we'll create an unsigned PSBT using the `watch_only_wallet`, sign the PSBT using the private keys in the `offline_wallet`, and finally broadcast the signed PSBT using the online host.

Reviewer: misplaced backtick?

```suggestion
We are going to first create an `offline_wallet` on the offline host. We will then create a `watch_only_wallet` on the online host using public key descriptors exported from the `offline_wallet`. Next we will receive some coins into the wallet. In order to spend these coins we'll create an unsigned PSBT using the `watch_only_wallet`, sign the PSBT using the private keys in the `offline_wallet`, and finally broadcast the signed PSBT using the online host.
```

```sh
[offline]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -rpcwallet="offline_wallet" listdescriptors \
             | jq -r '.descriptors' \
             >> /path/to/descriptors.json
```

> [!NOTE]
> The `descriptors.json` file will be transferred to the online machine (e.g. using a USB flash drive) where it can be imported to create a related watch-only wallet.

### Create the online `watch_only_wallet`

1. On the online machine create a blank watch-only wallet which has private keys disabled and is named `watch_only_wallet`. This is achieved by using the `createwallet` options: `disable_private_keys=true, blank=true`.

The `watch_only_wallet` wallet will be used to track and validate incoming transactions, create unsigned PSBTs when spending coins, and broadcast signed and finalized PSBTs.

> [!NOTE]
> `blank` indicates that the wallet should not generate any new keys of its own. `disable_private_keys` indicates that the wallet should refuse to import private keys, i.e. will be a dedicated watch-only wallet.

```sh
[online]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -named createwallet \
              wallet_name="watch_only_wallet" \
              disable_private_keys=true \

>               blank=true

Reviewer 5: `blank` is not necessary.

Author: fixed

```sh
[online]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -rpcwallet="watch_only_wallet" listunspent

[
  {
    "txid": "0f3953dfc3eb8e753cd1633151837c5b9953992914ff32b7de08c47f1f29c762",
    "vout": 1,
    "address": "tb1qtu5qgc6ddhmqm5yqjvhg83qgk2t4ewajg0h6yh",
    "label": "",
    "scriptPubKey": "00145f2804634d6df60dd080932e83c408b2975cbbb2",
    "amount": 0.01000000,
    "confirmations": 4,
    "spendable": true,
    "solvable": true,
    "desc": "wpkh([306c734f/84h/1h/0h/0/0]025932ccee7590158f7e08bb36290d135d30a0b045163da896e1cd7645ec4223a9)#xytvyr4a",
    "parent_descs": [
      "wpkh([306c734f/84h/1h/0h]tpubDCJnY92ib4Zu3qd6wrBXEjG436tQdA2tDiJU2iSJYjkNS1darssPWKaBfojhjUF5vMLBcxbN2r93pmFMz2zyTEZuNx9JDo9rWqoHhATW3Uz/0/*)#7mh08dkg"
    ],
    "safe": true
  }
]
```

### Create and Export an Unsigned PSBT

1. Get a destination address for the transaction. In this tutorial we'll be sending funds to the address `tb1q9k5w0nhnhyeh78snpxh0t5t7c3lxdeg3erez32`, but if you don't need the coins for further testing you could send the coins back to the faucet.

> 2. Create a funded but unsigned PSBT to the destination address with the online `watch_only_wallet` by using `walletcreatefundedpsbt inputs[], outputs[address: amount]` and export the unsigned PSBT to a file `funded_psbt.txt` for easy portability to the `offline_wallet` for signing:

Reviewer 5: The `send` RPC is slightly easier to use and will also make a PSBT.

Author: fixed

```
> [!NOTE]
> Leaving the `input` array empty in the above `walletcreatefundedpsbt` command is permitted and will cause the wallet to automatically select appropriate inputs for the transaction.

### Decode and Analyze the Unsigned PSBT

Decode and analyze the unsigned PSBT on the `offline_wallet` using the `funded_psbt.txt` file:

```sh
[offline]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet decodepsbt $(cat /path/to/funded_psbt.txt)

{
    ...
}

[offline]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet analyzepsbt $(cat /path/to/funded_psbt.txt)

{
  "inputs": [
    {
      "has_utxo": true,
      "is_final": false,
      "next": "signer",
      "missing": {
        "signatures": [
          "5f2804634d6df60dd080932e83c408b2975cbbb2"
        ]
      }
    }
  ],
  "estimated_vsize": 141,
  "estimated_feerate": 0.00100000,
  "fee": 0.00014100,
  "next": "signer"
}
```

Notice that the analysis of the PSBT shows that "signatures" are missing and should be provided by the private key corresponding to the public key hash (hash160) "5f2804634d6df60dd080932e83c408b2975cbbb2"

### Process and Sign the PSBT

> 1. Unlock the `offline_wallet` with the Passphrase:

Reviewer 4: Minor capitalization nit.

```suggestion
1. Unlock the `offline_wallet` with the passphrase:
```

# Offline Signing Tutorial

Welcome to this tutorial on how to sign transactions offline using PSBT (Partially Signed Bitcoin Transactions). This tutorial will guide you through the process of securely signing Bitcoin transactions using an offline wallet and an online watch-only wallet.

## Overview

> In this tutirial we have two hosts [offline] which is

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In this tutorial we have two hosts: [offline] which is
```

totally offline and without a copy of the blockchain
and [online] which is a regular online node, both
running bitcoin 25.0

In this example, we are going to generate a key on the offline wallet, then

> send it 0.0009 BTC with an online wallet, then using the online

Author: Thanks for the suggestion, I've updated the doc to use separate online sending and receiving wallets

# Offline Signing Tutorial

Welcome to this tutorial on how to sign transactions offline using PSBT (Partially Signed Bitcoin Transactions). This tutorial will guide you through the process of securely signing Bitcoin transactions using an offline wallet and an online watch-only wallet.

## Overview
In this tutorial, we have two hosts: [offline] which is totally offline and without a copy of the blockchain and [online] which is a regular online node, both running Bitcoin 25.0

> In this example, we are going to generate a key on the offline wallet, and then send it 0.0009 BTC with an online(sending) wallet, then using the online wallet draft a transaction to send 0.0008 BTC to another online(receiving) wallet, then sign that with the offline wallet, and finally announce the signed transaction into the network using the online wallet.

Reviewer: nits, spacing 

```suggestion
In this example, we are going to generate a key on the offline wallet, and then send it 0.0009 BTC with an online (sending) wallet, then using the online wallet draft a transaction to send 0.0008 BTC to another online (receiving) wallet, then sign that with the offline wallet, and finally announce the signed transaction into the network using the online wallet.
```

> [!NOTE]
> Tested using Signet with a connected host machine and an offline docker container (representing the offline wallet) both running Signet, should also work with Regtest and Mainnet

## Step 1: Sending money to the offline wallet

> ### Create and Load Funds into the Online Sending Wallet

Reviewer: I think the guide can be written without this online sending wallet. That would make it more practical too. I think starting this way is perhaps good for teaching a user about bitcoin but it I don't think it's necessary in a Bitcoin Core doc. The goal here in my opinion should be as close to real world usage as possible. So my suggestion would be: create the offline wallet, copy the descriptors to the online wallet, and then fund the wallet directly from the faucet.

1. On the online machine, create an online wallet named `online_sending_wallet` and load funds into it.

```sh
[online]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -named createwallet wallet_name="online_sending_wallet"
{
  "name": "online_sending_wallet"
}
```

2. Generate an address from the `online_sending_wallet` to receive funds.

```sh
[online]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -rpcwallet="online_sending_wallet" getnewaddress
tb1q5hg8nvt8frlcth57n3s2h3lfqp8he9s0ea23q4
```

3. Visit a faucet like https://signet.bc-2.jp to load funds into the generated address.

### Create and Prepare the Offline Wallet

1. On the offline machine, create an offline wallet named `offline_wallet`.

```sh
[offline]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -named createwallet wallet_name="offline_wallet"
{
  "name": "offline_wallet"
}
```

2. Export the offline wallet descriptors to a JSON file named `descriptors.json`. This file will be exported to the online machine to create a watch-only wallet.
```sh

> [offline]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -rpcwallet="offline_wallet" listdescriptors | jq -r '.descriptors' >> ~/descriptors.json

Reviewer: users might not have `jq` installed so you could either mention that it is a requirement or explain what you are doing here (pulling out the "descriptors" object from the output)

```

### Create the online "watch_only_wallet"

1. On the online machine, create an online watch-only wallet named `watch_only_wallet` without private keys.
- The `watch_only_wallet` wallet will be used to track transactions received to the `offline_wallet` and for creating PSBT transactions.

```sh
[online]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -named createwallet wallet_name="watch_only_wallet" disable_private_keys=true blank=true
{
  "name": "watch_only_wallet"
}
```

> 2. Import the `offline_wallet` descriptors to the online `watch_only_wallet` using the `descriptors.json` file created on the offline wallet

Reviewer: Might be nice to explain here that multiple descriptors are being imported and the wallets can create a variety of address types. Later when you call `getnewaddress` you can also explain the default address type and how to select another type if desired.

```sh
[online]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -rpcwallet="watch_only_wallet" importdescriptors "$(cat ~/descriptors.json)"
[
  {
    "success": true
  },
  {
    "success": true
  },
  {
    "success": true
  },
  {
    "success": true
  },
  {
    "success": true
  },
  {
    "success": true
  },
  {
    "success": true
  },
  {
    "success": true
  }
]
```

### Send Funds to the Offline Wallet

> 1. Generate a new address in the `offline_wallet` to receive funds.

Reviewer: You should be able to generate receive address from the online wallet now! I feel like one of the best benefits of this setup is that once you create the private keys in the offline wallet, you shouldn't even need to turn that computer on until you are ready to sign something.

```sh
[online]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -rpcwallet="online_sending_wallet" sendtoaddress "tb1q6xp92v5jfllewp9gum9mgqlgsfvefrzrvrc8tv" 0.0009
0408d91070a7d02f714066b4b1464f2e0040dce467f8a9edf24255a871a2e865
```

3. Confirm the received funds (to the `offline_wallet`) using the online `watch_only_wallet`.

```sh
[online]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -rpcwallet="watch_only_wallet" listunspent
[
  {
    "txid": "0408d91070a7d02f714066b4b1464f2e0040dce467f8a9edf24255a871a2e865",
    "vout": 1,
    "address": "tb1q6xp92v5jfllewp9gum9mgqlgsfvefrzrvrc8tv",
    "label": "",
    "scriptPubKey": "0014d1825532924fff9704a8e6cbb403e88259948c43",
    "amount": 0.00090000,
    "confirmations": 1,
    "spendable": true,
    "solvable": true,
    "desc": "wpkh([413037c1/84h/1h/0h/0/0]02b66303a69d660e98c49320afc28dd9abd8f34c9d59c4ca2148a243fa811ea6c8)#6d9cgsep",
    "parent_descs": [
      "wpkh([413037c1/84h/1h/0h]tpubDCjzsbgeDYJj2Xgpb5T5CjQ97muocfoQDkYu68RJvu4sspunz82G7pBfFcWUvCGj4AhQoDkbX24jxXyrREyVUAba6B8qKGkFNPyA8GBQ3kA/0/*)#3us38eqx"
    ],
    "safe": true
  }
]
```

## Step 2: Sending money from the offline wallet

### Create an Online Receiving Wallet

> 1. On the online machine, create an online wallet named `online_receiving_wallet`.

Reviewer: Again I think we can avoid creating yet another wallet here. You could either demonstrate a self-send or get an example destination address from some other source (some faucets have a return address)

```sh
[online]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -named createwallet wallet_name="online_receiving_wallet"
{
  "name": "online_receiving_wallet"
}
```

2. Generate a new address on the `online_receiving_wallet` to receive funds from the offline wallet.

```sh
[online]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -rpcwallet="online_receiving_wallet" getnewaddress
tb1q9k5w0nhnhyeh78snpxh0t5t7c3lxdeg3erez32
```

### Create and Export a PSBT Transaction

1. Create a PSBT transaction using the online `watch_only_wallet`, sending funds to the `online_receiving_wallet` address.
- Export the psbt transaction to `funded_psbt.txt` for easy portability to the `offline_wallet`

```sh

> [online]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -rpcwallet="watch_only_wallet" walletcreatefundedpsbt '[]' '[{"tb1q9k5w0nhnhyeh78snpxh0t5t7c3lxdeg3erez32": 0.0008}]' | jq -r '.psbt' >> ~/funded_psbt.txt

Reviewer: Might be nice to explain the arguments here (inputs[], outputs[]). And again explain what you're doing with `jq`

```

### Decode and Analyze the PSBT Transaction

1. Decode and analyze the PSBT transaction on the `offline_wallet` using the `funded_psbt.txt` file.

```sh
[offline]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet decodepsbt $(cat ~/funded_psbt.txt)
{
    ...
}
[offline]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet analyzepsbt $(cat ~/funded_psbt.txt)
{
  "inputs": [
    {
      "has_utxo": true,
      "is_final": false,
      "next": "signer",
      "missing": {
        "signatures": [
          "d1825532924fff9704a8e6cbb403e88259948c43"
        ]
      }
    }
  ],
  "estimated_vsize": 141,
  "estimated_feerate": 0.00001000,
  "fee": 0.00000141,
  "next": "signer"
}
```

### Process and Sign the PSBT Transaction

1. Process and sign the PSBT transaction on the `offline_wallet`.

```sh

> [offline]$ processed_psbt=$(./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -rpcwallet="offline_wallet" walletprocesspsbt $(cat ~/funded_psbt.txt) | jq -r .psbt)

Reviewer: Hm I haven't noticed this before but `walletprocesspsbt` can finalize (default is to finalize if possible) and so if this command returned hex in addition to base64, we could omit the `finalizepsbt` step... right? Might be another good follow-up PR ;-)

```

### Finalize the PSBT Transaction

1. Finalize the PSBT transaction on the `offline_wallet` and save the final PSBT to the `final_psbt.txt` file, to be exported and broadcasted by the online wallet

```sh
[offline]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet -rpcwallet="offline_wallet" finalizepsbt $processed_psbt | jq -r .hex >> ~/final_psbt.txt
[offline]$ cat ~/final_psbt.txt
0200000000010165e8a271a85542f2eda9f867e4dc40002e4f46b1b46640712fd0a77010d908040100000000fdffffff0280380100000000001600142da8e7cef3b9337f1e1309aef5d17ec47e66e5118326000000000000160014c9a498552f6fd359acfbbe57179a30b8b075b1c7024730440220659e544f37d1b48923df89dff71c63d996c0b233183c58f84a773d8e6306e5a00220765cb5a31403320ce49ab66d6fa097a70b00a131abfa832524bcc840af251f67012102b66303a69d660e98c49320afc28dd9abd8f34c9d59c4ca2148a243fa811ea6c800000000
```

### Broadcast the Finalized PSBT Transaction
1. Broadcast the signed and finalized PSBT transaction (on the `final_psbt.txt` file) using the online wallet

```sh
[online]$ ./src/bitcoin-cli -signet sendrawtransaction $(cat ~/final_psbt.txt)
e79497b11e3561cfd6349213ed71578d68411821d079855d56d419ba1db71170
```

### Confirm Wallet Balances

> 1. Confirm the updated balance of the `online_receiving_wallet`.

Reviewer 2: Would be able to drop this whole step if you eliminated the online_recieving_wallet.
